[New product] Node-feature-discovery (#4975)
captn3m0/endoflife.date: products/node-feature-discovery.md

---
title: Kubernetes Node Feature Discovery
category: server-app
tags: kubernetes
iconSlug: kubernetes
permalink: /kubernetes-node-feature-discovery
alternate_urls:
-   /k8s-node-feature-discovery
-   /node-feature-discovery
versionCommand: |-
  # Must be installed through helm chart https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/node-feature-discovery/node-feature-discovery
  nfd-gc -version
  nfd-master -version
  nfd-topology-updater -version

>   nfd-worker -version

Reviewer: Are these likely to report different versions? I'd prefer if we could provide a single command.

Alternatively, since the version is same as on the docker image, would a kubectl command be better here ([list the image across all namespaces (with a grep)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/list-all-running-container-images/#list-all-container-images-in-all-namespaces)). That would work on non-helm installs as well.

Author: These all report the same version - but I'll be swapping it with the kubectl list images command instead.

> releasePolicyLink: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/node-feature-discovery/releases

Reviewer: This doesn't provide any policy information. The [Security Policy](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/node-feature-discovery?tab=security-ov-file#readme) also doesn't mention any clear support policy, only k8s-compatibility policy, which isn't enough for here.

Do we have a better link?

Author: Unfortunately, I haven't been able to find anything about this.

releaseDateColumn: true
eolColumn: Support

auto:
  methods:
  -   git: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/node-feature-discovery.git

identifiers:
-   purl: pkg:github/kubernetes-sigs/node-feature-discovery
-   purl: oci:node-feature-discovery?repository_url=registry.k8s.io/nfd

# eol(x) = release(x+1)
releases:
-   releaseCycle: "0.15"
    releaseDate: 2023-08-08
    eol: false
    latest: "0.15.4"
    latestReleaseDate: 2024-03-28

-   releaseCycle: "0.14"
    releaseDate: 2023-04-19
    eol: false
    latest: "0.14.6"
    latestReleaseDate: 2024-03-28

-   releaseCycle: "0.13"
    releaseDate: 2022-12-21
    eol: 2023-04-19
    latest: "0.13.5"
    latestReleaseDate: 2023-07-08

-   releaseCycle: "0.12"
    releaseDate: 2022-06-07
    eol: 2023-09-12
    latest: "0.12.0"
    latestReleaseDate: 2022-06-07

---

> [node-feature-discovery](https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/node-feature-discovery/) is a a Kubernetes add-on for detecting hardware
> features and system configuration. It advertises these features using node labels and optionally node extended resources, annotations and node taints.

> Each release is churned out at a period of nearly two weeks, and the latest two releases are considered supported.

Reviewer: Needs a citation, and if this is an estimate, we should make it clear:
```suggestion
Looking at prior releases, a new release is made every two weeks, and the latest two releases
receive bug fixes.
```

---
title: Kubernetes Node Feature Discovery
category: server-app
tags: kubernetes
iconSlug: kubernetes
permalink: /kubernetes-node-feature-discovery
alternate_urls:
-   /k8s-node-feature-discovery
-   /node-feature-discovery
versionCommand: |-
  # Retrieve the image, along with the tag - which all point to the same version, post deployment on K8s
  kubectl get pods --all-namespaces -o jsonpath="{.items[*].spec['initContainers', 'containers'][*].image}" |\
  tr -s '[[:space:]]' '\n' |\
  sort |\

>   uniq -c

Reviewer: Wouldn't this show images for all containers instead of just for node-feature-discovery?

Author: I've updated it to exec into a deployment and print the version out.
